Compile-lines for each program are at the top of their source file.


simple sap run

./sap prot1.pdb prot2.pdb

Finds the best match of CA positions in prot1 with prot2 and calculates a superposition.
Takes only the first chain in each file.   The superposed sstructure are written in the
file super.pdb with the residue-level similarity score in the B-value (temperature factor)
field.   Best viewed in Rasmol with "colour temperature".   Matched residues are linked
by dashed lines (encoded by CONECT lines in super.pdb).   The file plot.rms has the RMS
values for increasing sets of residues ranked by their residue-level score. (Similar but
better than the equivalent CASP plots).

NB:

If the filenames are identical (ie sap prot1.pdb prot1.pdb), then sap calculates the
best internal (off-diagonal) match and not the trivial 1-to-1 solution.   Useful when
looking for internal duplication.

if the proteins are large, the internal stack memory may overflow.  To avoid this type
"unlimit stacksize" in the shell before any sap runs.


ungapped sap run

./sap121 prot1.pdb prot2.pdb
 
As above but adds a high weight to the digonal.


RMS superposition

./superWrms move.pdb stay.pdb cutoff other.pdb

Takes two pdb files of equal lenght and calculates their RMS superposition using the
product of their B-values as a weight.   If these have been set as 1 or 0 then where the
values are both one in the the files will determine the region of superposition.
A cutoff can be applied.   An additional pdb file can be specified which is rotated and
written instead of move.pdb in the output file rot.pdb.   other.pdb is typically a copy
of move.pdb with extra stuff such as small molecules of other subunits.   This can all
be done automatically with the script:

tcsh super.csh move.pdb stay.pdb 

With cutoff=0 and both files combined in supall.pdb

A variant of this script takes its inputfile from a sap run as:

tcsh super+sap.csh move.pdb stay.pdb cutoff

The value of the cutoff is now applied to the residue-level sap score to select the
residues to superpose with their scores being applied as a superposition weight.
Useful for homologous proteins with a common core.   For close homologues, cutoff=10
is a good number.  If unspecified, the cutoff is set to the average residue score.
NB: This script selects only the chains labelled "A" from each file. 


All atom superposition

All the above base their superpositions on CA atoms.   The following variants use all
atoms which is useful to guide the superposition on sidechains or ligands.

./smallWrms move.cas stay.cas cutoff

There are no scrips to run this so you will need to edit the B-values of the pdb files.


Example

In the "test" directory, two nicotinic receptors are superposed
